Amazon Q Developer is a generative artificial intelligence (AI) powered conversational assistant that can help you understand, build, extend, and operate AWS applications. You can ask questions about AWS architecture, your AWS resources, best practices, documentation, support, and more. Amazon Q is constantly updating its capabilities so your questions get the most contextually relevant and actionable answers. 

When used in an integrated development environment (IDE), Amazon Q provides software development assistance. Amazon Q can chat about code, provide inline code completions, generate net new code, scan your code for security vulnerabilities, and make code upgrades and improvements, such as language updates, debugging, and optimizations.

To get started with Amazon Q Developer, you need to install it as an extension in Visual Studio Code or a plugin in JetBrains. You can also use it in the AWS Toolkit for Visual Studio. 

Here's how you can use Amazon Q Developer's inline code suggestions in your Amplify project:

1. Open `amplify/data/resource.ts` and comment out the default schema for Todo provided.
2. In a new line below the commented schema, enter a comment to generate the schema using natural language. For example, `generate a restaurant model with the following fields: id, name, description, address, image, rating, style. Rating can be a float value. Authorization should allow public.` Press `Enter` for a new line and wait for Amazon Q Developer to generate inline code suggestion for your schema.
3. Select the inline code suggestion generated by Amazon Q developer. The inline code suggestion feature assists you in defining the schema and hover over the output to select from other options.
4. Make any required changes to the schema and save the `amplify/data/resource.ts` file. This will trigger a sandbox deployment and your new data model will be deployed.

You can also use Amazon Q Developer's workspace feature in your Amplify project. This feature allows you to incorporate the most relevant parts of your workspace code as context, using an index that updates periodically. 

To use the workspace feature, you need to download some markdown files that provide detailed guides on how to use Amazon Q Developer in your Amplify project. These files include `general.md`, `authentication.md`, `modeling-relationships.md`, and `modeling-schema.md`. 

Here's how you can use the workspace feature:

1. Create a folder in the root of your project and give a descriptive name such as `context`. Add the downloaded markdown files to this folder.
2. Open Amazon Q Developer Chat in your IDE and type `@workspace` to enable workspace indexing. Follow Amazon Q's prompts to set up indexing for your project directory.
3. After successful indexing, reference the markdown file content in your queries to Amazon Q. For example, you can type `@workspace follow AMPLIFYRULES to develop a data model schema for a freelance marketplace using Amplify Gen 2. Include models for freelancers, clients, projects, bids, and reviews. Use Amplify Gen 2 to fetch a list of projects` to get a data model schema for a freelance marketplace. 

You can also trigger the inline code suggestion feature manually by invoking Amazon Q Developer using the Option+C keyboard shortcut in VS Code.