To get started with AWS Amplify Gen 2 using the Next.js App Router, you need to have Node.js version 14.x or later, npm version 6.14.4 or later, and git version 2.14.1 or later installed. If you are new to these technologies, it is recommended that you go through the official React, Next.js, and TypeScript tutorials first.

To deploy a full-stack app to AWS, you will create a repository in your GitHub account using the Amplify Next template. This template scaffolds a create-next-app with Amplify backend capabilities. After creating the repository, you will deploy it with Amplify by selecting "Start with an existing app" and then "GitHub". You will then give Amplify access to your GitHub account and pick the repository and main branch to deploy.

While waiting for your app to deploy, you can take a tour of the project structure in the starter repository. The starter application has pre-written code for a to-do list app and gives you a real-time database with a feed of all to-do list items and the ability to add new items.

Once the build completes, you can visit the newly deployed branch by selecting "View deployed URL". You will be able to create new to-do items, and since the build deployed an API, database, and authentication backend, you will be able to view the data entered in your database in the Amplify console.

To make frontend updates, you will set up a local development environment by cloning the repository locally, installing dependencies, and moving the amplify_outputs.json file to the root of your project. You will then implement a delete functionality by adding a new deleteTodo function and passing it into the onClick handler of the li element.

To implement login UI, you will use the Authenticator UI component from the Amplify UI library. You will import the Authenticator component, wrap the children or pages components with it, and add a button to enable users to sign out of the application.

To make backend updates, you will update the backend to implement per-user authorization rules. You will set up local AWS credentials, deploy a cloud sandbox, and implement per-user authorization by applying an owner-based authorization rule to your to-do items.

Finally, you will commit and push the changes to get them to the cloud, and once the build completes in the Amplify Console, the main backend will update to support the changes made within the cloud sandbox.