When modeling application data, you often need to establish relationships between different data models. In Amplify Data, you can create one-to-many, one-to-one, and many-to-many relationships in your Data schema. On the client-side, Amplify Data allows you to lazy or eager load related data.

There are three types of relationships: 
- One-to-many: Creates a one-to-many relationship between two models. For example, a Team has many Members, and a Member belongs to a Team.
- One-to-one: Creates a one-to-one relationship between two models. For example, a Customer has one Cart, and a Cart belongs to one Customer.
- Many-to-many: Creates two one-to-many relationships between the related models in a join table. For example, a Post has many Tags, and a Tag has many Posts.

To model a one-to-many relationship, you need to create a reference field on the child model that matches the type of the parent model's identifier, and then create a relationship field that references the reference field. For example, to create a one-to-many relationship between a Team and a Member, you would create a reference field called teamId on the Member model, and then create a relationship field called team that references the teamId field.

To create a "Has Many" relationship between records, you need to create the parent record and then create the child record and assign the parent. For example, to create a "Has Many" relationship between a Team and a Member, you would create a Team record and then create a Member record and assign the Team to the Member.

You can update a "Has Many" relationship by updating the child record and assigning a new parent. For example, to update a "Has Many" relationship between a Team and a Member, you would update the Member record and assign a new Team to the Member.

You can delete a "Has Many" relationship by setting the relationship value to null. For example, to delete a "Has Many" relationship between a Team and a Member, you would update the Member record and set the teamId field to null.

To load related data in a "Has Many" relationship, you can use the relationship field to fetch the related data. For example, to load the Members of a Team, you would use the members relationship field on the Team model to fetch the related Members.

To lazy load a "Has Many" relationship, you can use the relationship field to fetch the related data on demand. For example, to lazy load the Members of a Team, you would use the members relationship field on the Team model to fetch the related Members when needed.

To eagerly load a "Has Many" relationship, you can use the selectionSet parameter to fetch the related data when fetching the parent record. For example, to eagerly load the Members of a Team, you would use the selectionSet parameter to fetch the members relationship field when fetching the Team record.

To handle orphaned foreign keys on parent record deletion in a "Has One" relationship, you need to delete the child record when the parent record is deleted. For example, to handle orphaned foreign keys on parent record deletion in a "Has One" relationship between a Customer and a Cart, you would delete the Cart record when the Customer record is deleted.

To model a one-to-one relationship, you need to create a reference field on one of the models that matches the type of the other model's identifier, and then create a relationship field that references the reference field. For example, to create a one-to-one relationship between a Customer and a Cart, you would create a reference field called customerId on the Cart model, and then create a relationship field called customer that references the customerId field.

To create a "Has One" relationship between records, you need to create the parent record and then create the child record and assign the parent. For example, to create a "Has One" relationship between a Customer and a Cart, you would create a Customer record and then create a Cart record and assign the Customer to the Cart.

You can update a "Has One" relationship by updating the child record and assigning a new parent. For example, to update a "Has One" relationship between a Customer and a Cart, you would update the Cart record and assign a new Customer to the Cart.

You can delete a "Has One" relationship by setting the relationship value to null. For example, to delete a "Has One" relationship between a Customer and a Cart, you would update the Cart record and set the customerId field to null.

To load related data in a "Has One" relationship, you can use the relationship field to fetch the related data. For example, to load the Cart of a Customer, you would use the activeCart relationship field on the Customer model to fetch the related Cart.

To lazy load a "Has One" relationship, you can use the relationship field to fetch the related data on demand. For example, to lazy load the Cart of a Customer, you would use the activeCart relationship field on the Customer model to fetch the related Cart when needed.

To eagerly load a "Has One" relationship, you can use the selectionSet parameter to fetch the related data when fetching the parent record. For example, to eagerly load the Cart of a Customer, you would use the selectionSet parameter to fetch the activeCart relationship field when fetching the Customer record.

To model a many-to-many relationship, you need to create a join model that contains two one-to-many relationships between the related entities. For example, to model a many-to-many relationship between a Post and a Tag, you would create a PostTag join model that contains two one-to-many relationships between the Post and Tag entities.

To model multiple relationships between two models, you need to create separate reference fields and relationship fields for each relationship. For example, to model multiple relationships between a Post and a Person, you would create separate reference fields and relationship fields for the author and editor relationships.

To make relationships required or optional, you can use the required parameter on the reference field to determine if the relationship is required or not. For example, to make a relationship required, you would set the required parameter to true on the reference field.